>> Ifill: TWO MAJOR HUMAN RIGHTS
GROUPS REPORTED TODAY DOZENS OF
CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN KILLED BY
U.S. DRONE STRIKES ABROAD,
CONTRADICTING OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION CLAIMS SUCH
DEATHS ARE RARE.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, THE
LATE JOBSTS NUMBERS, DELAYED
WEEKS BY THE SHUTDOWN, PAINT A
LACKLUSTER EMPLOYMENT PICTURE.
THERE'S JUST NO EVIDENCE THAT
WE'RE GOING RECOVER THE WAY WE
WERE BEFORE THE WALL STREET
IMPLOSION AND ENSUING RECESSION.
>> Ifill: PLUS, A TRADITIONAL
ALLY PUTS THE U.S. ON NOTICE, AS
SAUDI ARABIA CRITICIZES THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION FOR FAILING
TO INTERVENE IN SYRIA.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST LOOK AT
THE U.S. ECONOMY RAISED NEW
CONCERNS TODAY.
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT REPORTED
EMPLOYERS ADDED A NET OF 148-
THOUSAND JOBS SEPTEMBER, WELL
BELOW EXPECTATIONS.
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE DID DROP A
TENTH OF A POINT TO 7.2%, AS
MORE PEOPLE STOPPED LOOKING FOR
WORK.
PAUL SOLMAN TAKES A CLOSER LOOK
AT WHAT'S BEHIND THE NUMBERS,
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THE JOBS REPORT HELPED WALL
STREET GAIN SOME GROUND.
STOCKS ROSE ON HOPES THAT THE
FEDERAL RESERVE WILL CONTINUE
ECONOMIC STIMULUS EFFORTS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
ADDED 75 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,467.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NINE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3929.
THE S&P 500 CLOSED AT A RECORD
HIGH FOR THE FOURTH STRAIGHT
SESSION.
A PAIR OF HUMAN RIGHTS GROUPS
ZEROED IN TODAY ON ATTACKS BY
UNMANNED U.S. DRONES AND
CIVILIAN CASUALTIES.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL AND HUMAN
RIGHTS WATCH FOCUSED ON DRONE
STRIKES IN PAKISTAN AND YEMEN.
THEY SAID THE RESULTING CIVILIAN
DEATHS MAY BE TANTAMOUNT TO WAR
CRIMES IN SOME CASES.
WE'LL EXPLORE THE ISSUE IN
DETAIL, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
EFFORTS TO BEGIN PEACE TALKS IN
THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR HAVE RUN
INTO A ROADBLOCK.
THE WESTERN-BACKED SYRIAN
NATIONAL COALITION LAID DOWN
SEVERAL CONDITIONS TODAY.
ITS LEADER SAID PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD MUST BE EXCLUDED FROM
ANY NEW GOVERNMENT AND HARD-LINE
ISLAMIST REBELS MUST BE KEPT OUT
OF PEACE TALKS.
IN TURN, SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY ADVISED CAUTION.
>> Woodruff: KERRY SAID HE'S
STILL OPTIMISTIC THAT THE REBEL
COALITION WILL AGREE TO TAKE
PART IN TALKS WITH THE ASSAD
REGIME, STARTING IN LATE
NOVEMBER.
THE OIL KINGDOM OF BRUNEI WILL
SOON BE UNDER ISLAMIC CRIMINAL
LAW.
THE RULING SULTAN ANNOUNCED
TODAY THAT ENFORCEMENT OF THE
SHARIA PENAL CODE WILL BEGIN IN
SIX MONTHS.
PENALTIES INCLUDE AMPUTATIONS
FOR CONVICTED THIEVES AND
STONING FOR THOSE WHO COMMIT
ADULTERY.
BRUNEI ALREADY BANS THE SALE OF
ALCOHOL AND EVANGELISM BY OTHER
RELIGIONS.
IN AUSTRALIA, FIREFIGHTERS MADE
MORE PROGRESS TODAY THANKS TO
COOLER TEMPERATURES AND LIGHT
RAIN.
60 WILDFIRES WERE STILL BURNING
IN NEW SOUTH WALES ON THE
OUTSKIRTS OF SYDNEY.
OFFICIALS SAID CREWS
DELIBERATELY MERGED TWO MASSIVE
FIRES, HOPING TO CORRAL THEM
BEFORE THE WINDS AND HEAT GET
WORSE AGAIN.
>> THE LATEST PREDICTIONS ARE
INDICATING THAT WE MAY HAVE MADE
A SIGNIFICANT INROAD INTO JUST
HOW FAR THESE FIRES ARE LIKELY
TO ADVANCE OVER THE NEXT 24 AND
48 HOURS.
I JUST DON'T KNOW HOW FAR
THEY'RE GOING TO RUN YET, BUT
NONE OF US KNOW HOW FAR THEY'RE
GOING TO RUN YET.
BUT WHAT WE DO SNOW THAT
TOGETHER WE HAVE DONE EVERYTHING
WE CAN TO LIMIT JUST HOW FAR
THOSE FIRES RUN.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR, ONE PERSON
HAS DIED IN THE FIRES, AND AT
LEAST 208 HOMES HAVE BEEN
DESTROYED.
FACEBOOK ANNOUNCED TODAY IT'S
WORKING ON NEW WAYS TO WARN
USERS ABOUT GRAPHIC VIOLENCE ON
ITS SITE.
THE SOCIAL MEDIA GIANT ISSUED
THE STATEMENT AFTER AN UPROAR
OVER VIDEOS THAT SHOW
BEHEADINGS.
FACEBOOK BANNED SUCH VIDEOS IN
MAY, BUT RECENTLY LIFTED THE
PROHIBITION.
ABOUT ONE BILLION PEOPLE
WORLDWIDE USE FACEBOOK.
COMMUTERS IN THE SAN FRANCISCO
BAY AREA ARE GETTING BACK TO
NORMAL, AFTER A FOUR-DAY RAIL
STRIKE ENDED.
THE BAY AREA RAPID TRANSIT
SYSTEM, BART, BEGAN OPERATING
AGAIN THIS MORNING.
THAT WAS WELCOME NEWS FOR
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WHO'D BEEN
FORCED TO FIND OTHER WAYS TO
WORK.
RELIEF CAME LAST NIGHT WHEN
LEADERS FROM THE TRANSIT SYSTEM
AND ITS UNIONS STRUCK A DEAL.
>> Woodruff: THE TALKS BETWEEN
>> THIS OFFER IS MORE THAN WE
WANTED TO PAY BUT SILT ALSO A
NEW PATH IN TERMS OF OUR
PARTNERSHIP WITH OUR WORKERS AND
HELPS US TO DELIVER THE BART
SERVICE FOR THE FUTURE.
WE WILL GO BACK TO WORK AND
CONTINUE OUR EFFORTS TO KEEP THE
BAY AREA MOVING.
WE DID NOT WANT TO STRIKE AND
WE'RE GLAD TO HAVE A TENTATIVE
AGREEMENT THAT WE FEEL WILL WORK
FOR ALL PARTIES.
>> Woodruff: THE TALKS BETWEEN
BART AND THE UNIONS LASTED SIX
MONTHS, AND ALSO INCLUDED AN
EARLIER STRIKE, BACK IN JULY.
THE U.S. INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE PAID OUT MORE THAN $110
BILLION IN TAX CREDITS OVER THE
PAST DECADE TO PEOPLE WHO DIDN'T
QUALIFY.
THE AGENCY'S INSPECTOR GENERAL
REPORTED TODAY THE PAYMENTS WERE
EARNED INCOME TAX CREDITS
INTENDED FOR THE WORKING POOR.
BUT, HE FOUND, ONE-FIFTH OF ALL
SUCH PAYMENTS WERE MADE IN
ERROR.
HE BLAMED BOTH DISHONEST TAX
PREPARERS AND THE COMPLEXITY OF
THE TACREDX IT.
ALSO AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR, A
DEEPER LOOK AT CLAIMS U.S.
DRONES KILLED CIVILIANS; THE
ANEMIC EMPLOYMENT PICTURE; THE
FUTURE OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY;
RISING TENSIONS WITH SAUDI
ARABIA OVER SYRIA; HUNTING A
NIGHTMAREACTE BRIA; AND JONATHAN
LEETHEM DISCUSES HIS LATEST
NOVEL.
>> Ifill: NOW, WE RETURN TO TWO
HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP REPORTS THAT
TARGET U.S. STRIKES ABROAD.
EVEN THE NAMES ATTACHED TO THE
UNMANNED PLANES KNOWN AS DRONES
ARE FEARSOME.
"PREDATORS".
OPERATED REMOTEFULLY SKIES HIGH
ABOVE THEIR TARGETS DRONES HAVE
BECOME A CRITICAL TOOL IN THE
U.S. WAR ON AL QAEDA.
THIS IS ESPECIALLY FLEW THE
NORTH WAZIRISTAN REGION OF
PAKISTAN WHICH LIES ALONG ITS
BORDER WITH AFGHANISTAN.
THERE, IN THIS VILLAGE, AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL SAYS A 68-YEAR-OLD
MAN WAS KILLED A YEAR AGO AS HE
HARVESTED VEGETABLES.
THE FAMILY SAID HE WAS TARGETED
BY TWO HELLFIRE MISSILES FIRED
BY AN INVISIBLE DRONE.
ACCORDING TO AMNESTY, IT'S ONE
OF MANY SUCH INCIDENTS.
>> WE'VE RESEARCHED AS MUCH AS
WE CAN NINE CASES OUT OF THE 45
THAT WE IDENTIFIED BETWEEN
JANUARY, TWELVE, AND AUGUST,
2013.
WE TRIED OUR VERY HARDEST TO
STICK TO THE FACTS.
WE TRIED TO COB TRAIT
INFORMATION WE GATHERED AND TO
ANALYZE IT AGAINST SATELLITE
IMAGERY, PHOTOGRAPHS, VIDEO, AND
OTHER SOURCES.
THE MOST CHALLENGING SITUATION
WEHAD  TO FACE WAS THE COMPLETE
AND UTTER SECRECY OF THE U.S.
AUTHORITIES.
>> Ifill: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL
SAYS THE PAKISTANI GOVERNMENT
AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS ON THE GROUND
ESTIMATE THERE HAVE BEEN NEARLY
350 DRONE STRIKES IN PAKISTAN
SINCE 2004.
CRITICS ARGUE PRESIDENT OBAMA
HAS FAILED TO MAKE GOOD ON HIS
PROMISE TO LIMIT STRIKES THAT
RESULT IN UNINTENTIONAL
CASUALTIES.
HE SAID THIS IN MAY.
>> AND BEFORE ANY STRIKE IS
TAKEN THERE MUST BE NEAR
CERTAINTY THAT NO CIVILIANS WILL
BE KILLED OR INJURED.
THE HIGHEST STANDARD WE CAN SET.
FILL TILL THE DRONE STRIKES HAVE
SPARKED PROTEST IN PAKISTAN AND
IN YEMEN WHERE HUMAN RIGHTS
WATCH CARRIED OUT ITS OWN
INVESTIGATION REPORTING THAT
DOZENS OF CIVILIANS WERE KILLED
BY U.S. STRIKES.
>> MANY YEMENIS TOLD US THEY NOW
FEAR THE UNITED STATES MORE THAN
THEY FEAR AL QAEDA IN THE
ARABIAN PENINSULA.
THESE STRIKES ARE ALSO STOKING
ANGER IN THE VILLAGES WHERE
PEOPLE ARE HIT EVERY MAN, WOMAN
AND CHILD HAS SEEN IMAGES OF
CHARRED BODIES, OF BODY PARTS,
OF VEHICLES THAT ARE TURNED INTO
TWISTED MASSES.
>> Reporter: THE GROUPS CONTEND
THE KILLINGS MAY AMOUNT TO WAR
CRIMES BUT AT THE WHITE HOUSE
TODAY SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY
REJECTED ANY SUCH CONCLUSION.
>> TO THE EXTENT THESE REPORTS
CLAIM THE U.S. HAS ACTED
CONTRARY TO INTERNATIONAL LAW WE
WOULD STRONGLY DISAGREE.
THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
REPEATEDLY EMPHASIZED ETH
EXTRAORDINARY CARE WE TAKE TO
MAKE SURE COUNTERTERRORISM
ACTIONS ARE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ALL APPLICABLE LAWS.
>> Ifill: PAKISTANI PRIME
MINISTER THAT WHAT SHARIF, NOW
VISITING WASHINGTON, IS EXPECTED
TO PURSUE THE DRONE ISSUE WHEN
HE MEETS WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA
TOMORROW.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS DRONE
ATTACKS OVERSEAS ARE MUSTAFA
QADRI, THE AUTHOR OF THE AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL REPORT.
AND RETIRED MAJOR GENERAL
CHARLES DUNLAP, DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTER ON LAW, ETHICS AND
NATIONAL SECURITY AT DUKE
UNIVERSITY.
I WANT TO START WITH YOU,
MUSTAFA QADRI BY ASKING HOW DO
YOU QUANTIFY STRIKES THE U.S.
WON'T CONFIRM.
>> THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
QUESTION.
THE PROBLEM IS, THIS IS A REGION
WHICH IS SO REMOTE, SO LAWLESS
AND A PROGRAM THAT'S SO
SECRETIVE THAT EVEN FINDING THE
DETAILS OF NINE STRIKES OUT OF
47 INFORM THE LAST 18 MONTHS IS
VERY DIFFICULT.
SO EVEN JUST GETTING INFORMATION
ABOUT A COUPLE OF STRIKES IS A
GREAT ACHIEVEMENT.
>> Ifill: HOW DID YOU IT?
>> BASICALLY WE HAVE A DEVELOPED
TEAM, INDEPENDENT RESEARCHERS,
PEOPLE TRUSTED BY US WHO HAVE
WORKED ON HUMAN RIGHT ISSUES
WITH US.
WE GET THEM GO TO THESE REGIONS,
TALK TO LOCAL PEOPLE IN AN
ENVIRONMENT WHERE THEY'RE
TRUSTED, THEY FEEL SAFE,
BASICALLY THEY CAN THOSE FACTS,
ANY GAPS IN IT WE GO BACK.
WE TREAT THIS INFORMATION
INITIALLY VERY KEPTALLY.
AFTER WE'VE GOT THE INFORMATION
AND WE'RE CONFIDENT WITH WHAT
WE'VE GOT WE COMPARE IT WITH
AUDIO MATERIAL, SATELLITE,
TRAFFIC IMAGERY.
THE REPORT WE HAVE IS BASED ON
THOROUGHLY RESEARCHED TESTIMONY.
>> Ifill: MR. DUNLAP, DO YOU
TRUST THE NUMBERS?
THE WAY THEY'VE GATHERED THEIR
INFORMATION?
>> WELL, I THINK YOU TAKE THE --
THANK U VEYORY MUCH FOR HAVING
ME ON THE PROGRAM AND LET ME
JUST SAY AT THE OUTSET ANY DEATH
OF AN INNOCENT HUMAN SBG A
TRAGEDY.
BUT THE YOU LOOK AT PAGE 10 I
THINK IT REVEALS THE BASIC
PROBLEMS WITH THE REPORT.
THEY HIRED LOCAL NATIONALS -- TO
BEGIN WITH, THEY ADMIT IT'S NOT
A COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY OF DRONE
STRIKES IN PAKISTAN.
THEY HIRED LOCAL NATIONALS AND
THEY SPECIFICALLY SAY THAT THE
PEOPLE THAT THEY TALKED TO WERE
THOSE WHO WERE ANXIOUS TO MAKE
KNOWN THE HUMAN COST OF DRONES.
PEOPLE SELF-SELECTED INTO IT.
IF YOU LOOK AT FOOTNOTES OF THE
REPORT, THEY SAY THAT WHILE THEY
TRIED TO INTERVIEW WOMEN AND
CHILDREN BUT, YOU KNOW, TOO HARD
TO DO SO THOSE THERE'S VERY FEW
PARTICIPANTS WHO ARE WOMEN AND
CHILDREN.
IT INDICATES HOW DIFFICULT IT IS
TO GET THIS KIND OF INFORMATION
AND SO --
>> Ifill: SO YOU'RE SAYING THE
NUMBERS DON'T STAND UP AND
THEREFORE THERE'S NOT A PROBLEM
OR JUST THAT THE PROBLEM IS NOT
PROVABLE?
>>
>> WHAT I'M SAYING IS THAT I
DON'T FIND STATISTICS IN THE
REPORT TO BE DEFINITIVE TO THE
NUMBER OF CASUALTIES.
I MEAN, I THINK THAT THEY DID
WHAT THEY CAN BUT THE FACT OF
THE MATTER IS, IT'S EXTREMELY
DIFFICULT TO GATHER THAT
INFORMATION IN THAT AREA SO THEY
PRESUME TO KNOW MORE THAN WHAT
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT KNOWS WITH
ALL ITS OTHER ACCESS TO
INFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL
CAPABILITIES ABOUT WHO WAS ON
THE GROUND.
I WANT TO EMPHASIZE LET'S NOT
FORGET THAT INTERNATIONAL LAW
DOESN'T REQUIRE NO CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES.
IT ONLY REQUIRES THAT THEY NOT
BE EXCESSIVE IN TROLGS THE
MILITARY ADVANTAGE ANTICIPATED.
>> Ifill: THAT'S THE A VERSION I
WANT TO ASK OF MR. QADRI HERE.
HOW DO YOU KNOW WHEN YOU CROSS
THE LINE OF WHAT IS A JUSTIFIED
STRIKE, A JUSTIFIED ATTACK ON
SUS TERRORISTS AND
CROSSING THE LINE INTO WAR RIMES
OR EXTRA JUDICIAL EXECUTION.
>> IT'S A REALLY IMPORTANT
POINT.
LET'S BE QUITE CLEAR HERE.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A
GRANDMOTHER WHO WAS KILLED IN
FRONT OF HER GRANDCHILDREN.
WE DON'T SEE KNEW'S JUSTIFIED.
INTERNATIONAL LAW IS VERY CLEAR
ON THIS SITUATION.
WE'VE SAID VERY CLEARLY SOME
DRONE STRIKES MIGHT BE LAWFUL.
SOME UNDER THE LAW OF WHERE,
INTERNATIONAL LAW YOU CAN KILL
CIVILIANS.
IF IT'S INCIDENT TOOLE A
MILITARY OBJECTIVE AND SO FORTH.
BUT IN THAT STRIKE, FOR EXAMPLE,
CHOW THAT BE JUSTIFIED.
IN OUR OPINION THIS IS CLEARLY
AN UNLAWFUL KILLING.
JUST TO ALSO RESPOND TO SOME OF
THE THINGS THAT OUR GUEST
MENTIONED, WE DON'T PRETEND TO
HAVE ALL THE INFORMATION BUT ON
THIS POINT ABOUT US CLAIMING TO
KNOW MORE THAN THE U.S., IT'S
QUITE DIFFERENT THAN THAT.
WE ARE ACTUALLY BEING FAR MORE
OPEN ABOUT WHAT WE HAVE AND
BEING VERY HONEST ABOUT IT THAN
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.
IN FACT, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS
NOT SHOWN US ANYTHING.
IN TERMS OF SELF-SELECTING THE
PEOPLE WE'VE SPOKEN TO, IF OUR
GUEST HAD LOOKED AT OUR WORK IN
THE REGION IN ANY DETAIL HE'D
KNOW THAT OUR SAME TEAM, OUR
SAME PEOPLE WILL GIVE A MASSIVE
REPORT LAST YEAR ON ABUSES BY
THE TALIBAN, ABUSES BY THE
MILITARY THERE.
THEY'RE NOT SELF-SELECTING
ANYTHING.
WE DELIBERATELY MADE SURE WE
TALKED ABOUT THE LOCAL ABUSES
LAST YEAR AND THEN TALKED ABOUT
DRONE THIS IS YEAR.
YOU KNOW, WE CAN'T PRETEND TO
HAVE ALL THE ANSWERS, BUT WE
FOUND ONE KEY PROBLEM, WHICH IS
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED
UNLAWFULLY.
>> Ifill: MR. DUNLAP, IS THE
U.S. BEING TRANSPARENT ENOUGH
ABOUT WHAT IT IS AND IS NOT
DOING?
>> I THINK IT'S BEING AS
TRANSPARENT AS AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL WAS IN THEIR
REPORT.
IF YOU -- AGAIN, I'M JUST
QUOTING FROM REPORT OF THE
PEOPLE THAT THEY SAID THAT THEY
INTERVIEWED PEOPLE WHO WANTED TO
BRING THE LIGHT THE HUMAN COSTS
OF THE DRONE PROGRAM.
EVIDENTLY THEY DIDN'T WANT TO
SPEAK WITH ANYBODY WHO WANT TO
BRING TO LIGHT THE ABSENCE OF
THE HUMAN DRONE PROGRAM BECAUSE
WE KNOW THE U.N. STATISTICS OUT
OF AFGHANISTAN, 75% TO 80% OF
THE CIVILIANS WHO ARE KILLED ARE
KILLED WE ANTI-GOVERNMENT FORCES
LIKE THAT TALIBAN AND AL QAEDA.
AS TO THE PARTICULAR INCIDENT
THAT MY FELLOW GUEST REFERENCES.
ON THE SAME PAGE THAT THEY
ACCUSE THE U.S. GOVERNMENT OF A
POSSIBLE WAR CRIME THEY ADMIT
THAT THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
RATIONALE WAS.
I SUSPECT-- OR ONE MIGHT
SURMISE-- THAT IT WAS EITHER AN
ERROR-- AND ERRORS DO HAPPEN--
OR THE INDIVIDUAL WAS NOT THE
TARGET BUT SOMEONE ELSE WAS THE
TARGET AND AS INTERNATIONAL LAW
DOES PROVIDE THAT AS LONG AS THE
CIVILIAN CASUALTIES-- MEANING
THE INNOCENT CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES-- ARE NOT EXCESSIVE
IT'S NOT IN VIOLATION OF
INTERNATIONAL LAW.
FILL BILL THAT IS THE
ALTERNATIVE -- PARDON ME JOOPLT,
I WANT TO GET ONE MORE QUESTION
IN HERE.
WHAT IS THE ALTERNATIVE TO
TRYING TO GET -- IF WE KNOW
THERE ARE BAD GUYS AFOOT AND
DRONES ARE IMPRECISE IN YOUR
WORLD VIEW THEN WHAT IS THE
ALTERNATIVE?
>> LET'S BE VERY CLEAR: WE'RE
NOT SAYING STOP DRONES.
WE'RE SAYING USE THEM IN A
LAWFUL WAY.
THE U.S. IS NOT USING THEM IN A
WE'RE TALKING ALSO ABOUT THE
LAWFUL WAY.
VERY MAJOR ALLY OF THE U.S.,
WE'RE TALKING ALSO ABOUT THE
PAKISTAN.
VERY MAJOR ALLY OF THE U.S.,
WE SAID VERY CLEARLY IN OUR
PAKISTAN.
REPORT THAT SPZ FAILING IN ITS
WE SAID VERY CLEARLY IN OUR
DUTY FIRSTLY TO GET THE
REPORT THAT SPZ FAILING IN ITS
PERPETRATORS OF ABUSES IN THAT
DUTY FIRSTLY TO GET THE
REGION, REAL SERIOUS SECURITY
PERPETRATORS OF ABUSES IN THAT
THREATS AND ALSO ENFORCEMEN PEO.
REGION, REAL SERIOUS SECURITY
THERE IS A MIDDLE WAY.
THREATS AND ALSO ENFORCEMEN PEO.
WE DON'T HAVE TO WORRY, HAVE A
THERE IS A MIDDLE WAY.
DISCUSSION ABOUT DRONES.
WE DON'T HAVE TO WORRY, HAVE A
IN FACT, THERE'S SOMETHING IN
DISCUSSION ABOUT DRONES.
THE MIDDLE WHICH IS USE DRONES,
IN FACT, THERE'S SOMETHING IN
FINE, LAWFUL, BUT IT HAS TO BE
THE MIDDLE WHICH IS USE DRONES,
PART OF A WIDER STRATEGY.
FINE, LAWFUL, BUT IT HAS TO BE
>> AND SHOULD PART OF THAT WIDER
PART OF A WIDER STRATEGY.
STRATEGY BE THERE SHOULD BE SOME
>> AND SHOULD PART OF THAT WIDER
EFFORT TO REDUCE THE POSSIBILITY
STRATEGY BE THERE SHOULD BE SOME
OF CIVILIAN CASUAL SNEEZE
EFFORT TO REDUCE THE POSSIBILITY
>> ABSOLUTELY.
OF CIVILIAN CASUAL SNEEZE
AND AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF EFFORT
>> ABSOLUTELY.
HAS GONE INTO THAT.
AND AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF EFFORT
IF YOU LOOK AT THE NEW AMERICAN
HAS GONE INTO THAT.
FOUNDATIONS STATISTICS YOU'LL
IF YOU LOOK AT THE NEW AMERICAN
SEE THE NUMBER OF CIVILIAN
FOUNDATIONS STATISTICS YOU'LL
DEATHS HAVE GONE DOWN
SEE THE NUMBER OF CIVILIAN
DRAMATICALLY.
DEATHS HAVE GONE DOWN
IN FACT, THEY'RE REPORTING ZERO
DRAMATICALLY.
FOR THIS YEAR, CONTRARY TO WHAT
IN FACT, THEY'RE REPORTING ZERO
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL HAS
FOR THIS YEAR, CONTRARY TO WHAT
REPORTED.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL HAS
BUT IN FAIRNESS TO AMNESTY
REPORTED.
INTERNATIONAL, WHEN YOU READ THE
BUT IN FAIRNESS TO AMNESTY
REPORT, THEY DO PUT A LOT OF
INTERNATIONAL, WHEN YOU READ THE
CAVEATS AND LIMITATIONS AND
REPORT, THEY DO PUT A LOT OF
"MAYS" AND "MAYBES" AND SO FORTH
CAVEATS AND LIMITATIONS AND
IN IT.
"MAYS" AND "MAYBES" AND SO FORTH
IT DOESN'T MATCH THE HEADLINES
IN IT.
WE SEE COMING OUT.
IT DOESN'T MATCH THE HEADLINES
>> Ifill: WE'LL HAVE TO LEAVE IT
WE SEE COMING OUT.
THERE.
>> Ifill: WE'LL HAVE TO LEAVE IT
MAJOR GENERAL CHARLES DUNLAP,
THERE.
JR., AND MUSTAFA QADRI, THANK
MAJOR GENERAL CHARLES DUNLAP,
YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
JR., AND MUSTAFA QADRI, THANK
>> THANK YOU.
YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.>> LET'S TURN BACKS
>> THANK YOU.
CTURPIE AND NEW INFORMATION
>> THANK YOU.>> LET'S TURN BACKS
SUGGESTING HIRING COULD BE
CTURPIE AND NEW INFORMATION
SLOWING DOWN.
SUGGESTING HIRING COULD BE
NEWSHOUR ECONOMICS RRESCOPONDENT
SLOWING DOWN.
PAUL SOLMAN LOOKS AT THE LATEST
NEWSHOUR ECONOMICS RRESCOPONDENT
LABOR REPORT, PART OF HIS
PAUL SOLMAN LOOKS AT THE LATEST
ONGOING REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE
LABOR REPORT, PART OF HIS
OF FINANCIAL NEWS."
ONGOING REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE
>> IT IS JOBS TUESDAY.
OF FINANCIAL NEWS."
148,000.
>> IT IS JOBS TUESDAY.
THE RATE DROPS TO 7.2.
148,000.
>> Reporter: FEWER JOBS THAN
THE RATE DROPS TO 7.2.
HOPED FOR AND AN EMPLOYMENT RATE
>> Reporter: FEWER JOBS THAN
THAT CHANGED LITTLE AS THE
HOPED FOR AND AN EMPLOYMENT RATE
BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS PUT
THAT CHANGED LITTLE AS THE
IT.
BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS PUT
IN SHORT, THIS MORNING'S JOB
IT.
NUMBERS REFLECT ANOTHER MONTH OF
IN SHORT, THIS MORNING'S JOB
ANEMIC GROWTH.
NUMBERS REFLECT ANOTHER MONTH OF
LIKE MOST OF ITS FELLOW
ANEMIC GROWTH.
ECONOMISTS, IT SEEMS, HARVARD'S
LIKE MOST OF ITS FELLOW
RICHARD FREEMAN WAS UNIMPRESSED.
ECONOMISTS, IT SEEMS, HARVARD'S
>> IT'S TYPICAL OF THE NUMBERS
RICHARD FREEMAN WAS UNIMPRESSED.
WE'VE BEEN SEEING OVER THE LAST
>> IT'S TYPICAL OF THE NUMBERS
COUPLE YEARS, SMALL IMPROVEMENTS
WE'VE BEEN SEEING OVER THE LAST
IN JOBS.
COUPLE YEARS, SMALL IMPROVEMENTS
NOT ENOUGH TO BRING US BACK TO A
IN JOBS.
STRONGER ECONOMY AND THE
NOT ENOUGH TO BRING US BACK TO A
GOVERNMENT SECTOR KEEPS INTO
STRONGER ECONOMY AND THE
SLIGHTLY DECLINING, NOT AS MUCH
GOVERNMENT SECTOR KEEPS INTO
AS IT WAS.
SLIGHTLY DECLINING, NOT AS MUCH
PRIVATE SECTOR BALANCING THAT
AS IT WAS.
OUT WITH JOBS.
PRIVATE SECTOR BALANCING THAT
BUT WE'RE STILL A VERY WEAK
OUT WITH JOBS.
LABOR MARKET.
BUT WE'RE STILL A VERY WEAK
>> Reporter: UNSURPRISINGLY,
LABOR MARKET.
JASON FUHRMAN, THE PRESIDENT'S
>> Reporter: UNSURPRISINGLY,
CHIEF ECONOMIST, SOUNDED A MORE
JASON FUHRMAN, THE PRESIDENT'S
UPBEAT NOTE.
CHIEF ECONOMIST, SOUNDED A MORE
>> WE'VE HAD 43 STRAIGHT MONTHS
UPBEAT NOTE.
OF JOB GROWTH BUT THE
>> WE'VE HAD 43 STRAIGHT MONTHS
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE HAS COME DOWN
OF JOB GROWTH BUT THE
STEADILY.
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE HAS COME DOWN
WE JUST CAN'T BE SATISFIED WITH
STEADILY.
WHERE IT IS.
WE JUST CAN'T BE SATISFIED WITH
>> Reporter: THE PROBLEM IS, THE
WHERE IT IS.
THREE-MONTH AVERAGE OF
>> Reporter: THE PROBLEM IS, THE
143 3,000 NEW JOBS SINCE JULY IS
THREE-MONTH AVERAGE OF
WELL BELOW THE
143 3,000 NEW JOBS SINCE JULY IS
182,000 AVERAGE OF THE PRIOR
WELL BELOW THE
THREE MONTHS AND ECONOMIST
182,000 AVERAGE OF THE PRIOR
FREEMAN SEES TROUBLING TRENDS
THREE MONTHS AND ECONOMIST
BEHIND THE HEADLINES.
FREEMAN SEES TROUBLING TRENDS
THE 21% TEEN UNEMPLOYMENT RATE,
BEHIND THE HEADLINES.
FOR INSTANCE.
THE 21% TEEN UNEMPLOYMENT RATE,
>> THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS
FOR INSTANCE.
HIGHER THAN IT HAS BEEN FOR A
>> THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS
LONG, LONG TIME.
HIGHER THAN IT HAS BEEN FOR A
REMAINS HIGH.
LONG, LONG TIME.
THE EMPLOYMENT RATE REMAINS LOW
REMAINS HIGH.
AND IT LOOKS AS IF AMONG 16 TO
THE EMPLOYMENT RATE REMAINS LOW
19-YEAR-OLDS THEY'VE LOST ABOUT
AND IT LOOKS AS IF AMONG 16 TO
10 PERCENTAGE POINTS OF JOBS.
19-YEAR-OLDS THEY'VE LOST ABOUT
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT WE'RE
10 PERCENTAGE POINTS OF JOBS.
GOING RECOVERY TO WHERE WE WERE
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT WE'RE
BEFORE THE WALL STREET.
GOING RECOVERY TO WHERE WE WERE
IF PLUNGE AND ENSUING RECESSION.
BEFORE THE WALL STREET.
>> Reporter: NOR IS THERE
IF PLUNGE AND ENSUING RECESSION.
EVIDENCE THAT THOSE WITHOUT JOBS
>> Reporter: NOR IS THERE
ARE GETTING THEM MORE QUICKLY.
EVIDENCE THAT THOSE WITHOUT JOBS
THE AVERAGE LENGTH OF
ARE GETTING THEM MORE QUICKLY.
UNEMPLOYMENT REMAINS AT 37
THE AVERAGE LENGTH OF
WEEKS.
UNEMPLOYMENT REMAINS AT 37
>> AND THAT'S THE LONGEST WE'VE
WEEKS.
EVER ADD IN A RECOVERY.
>> AND THAT'S THE LONGEST WE'VE
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, IT WAS
EVER ADD IN A RECOVERY.
ALSO STALLED BY GOVERNMENT
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, IT WAS
FURLOUGHS.
ALSO STALLED BY GOVERNMENT
SO WE ASK WHAT EFFECT, IF ANY,
FURLOUGHS.
DID IT HAVE ON THIS MONTH'S
SO WE ASK WHAT EFFECT, IF ANY,
NUMBERS.
DID IT HAVE ON THIS MONTH'S
>> IT DIDN'T AFFECT THE NUMBERS.
NUMBERS.
THE NUMBERS WERE GATHERED BEFORE
>> IT DIDN'T AFFECT THE NUMBERS.
THE SHUTDOWN SO WE WOULD LOOK TO
THE NUMBERS WERE GATHERED BEFORE
NEXT MONTH'S NUMBERS AND THE
THE SHUTDOWN SO WE WOULD LOOK TO
FOLLOWING MONTH'S NUMBERS FOR A
NEXT MONTH'S NUMBERS AND THE
WEAKER ECONOMY BUT THE
FOLLOWING MONTH'S NUMBERS FOR A
STATISTICS WON'T BE AS GOOD AS
WEAKER ECONOMY BUT THE
THEY WERE NORMALLY BECAUSE THE
STATISTICS WON'T BE AS GOOD AS
SHUTDOWN AFFECTED THE
THEY WERE NORMALLY BECAUSE THE
STATISTICAL AGENCIES GATHERING
SHUTDOWN AFFECTED THE
THE NUMBERS SO WE'LL HAVE
STATISTICAL AGENCIES GATHERING
MESSIER NUMBERS FOR THE NEXT
THE NUMBERS SO WE'LL HAVE
SEVERAL MONTHS.
MESSIER NUMBERS FOR THE NEXT
>> MESSIER NUMBERSS.
SEVERAL MONTHS.
PREDICTING 120, SHOUSHGS FEWER
>> MESSIER NUMBERSS.
JOBS IN THE NEXT REPORT DUE TO
PREDICTING 120, SHOUSHGS FEWER
THE SHUTDOWN.
JOBS IN THE NEXT REPORT DUE TO
>> WHAT WE DID IN OCTOBER WAS A
THE SHUTDOWN.
SELF-INFLICTED WOUND THAT WILL
>> WHAT WE DID IN OCTOBER WAS A
SUBTRACT FROM JOBS WHEN WE LEARN
SELF-INFLICTED WOUND THAT WILL
THE JOB NUMBERS FROM OCTOBER.
SUBTRACT FROM JOBS WHEN WE LEARN
>> Reporter: WILL THAT INFLUENCE
THE JOB NUMBERS FROM OCTOBER.
THE FEDERAL RESERVE'S DECISION
>> Reporter: WILL THAT INFLUENCE
TO CONTINUETOR TAPER OFF ITS
THE FEDERAL RESERVE'S DECISION
SOALLE-CD QUANTITATIVE EASING?
TO CONTINUETOR TAPER OFF ITS
THIS WAY OF INCREASING THE
SOALLE-CD QUANTITATIVE EASING?
QUANTITY OF MONEY THEREBY MAKING
THIS WAY OF INCREASING THE
IT EASIER TO COME BY.
QUANTITY OF MONEY THEREBY MAKING
HOW WILL THE FEDERAL RESERVE, DO
IT EASIER TO COME BY.
YOU THINK, RESPOND TOP THIS
HOW WILL THE FEDERAL RESERVE, DO
MONTH'S NUMBERS A>> IT'S LIKELYO
YOU THINK, RESPOND TOP THIS
CURRENT POLICIES BECAUSE A
MONTH'S NUMBERS A>> IT'S LIKELYO
CHANGE WAS BASED -- WOULD BE
CURRENT POLICIES BECAUSE A
BASED ON BELIEVING THE ECONOMY
CHANGE WAS BASED -- WOULD BE
GOT TO BE MORE HEALTHY AND I --
BASED ON BELIEVING THE ECONOMY
IT'S VERY DUBIOUS WE WILL SEE
GOT TO BE MORE HEALTHY AND I --
THAT IN OCTOBER OR NOVEMBER
IT'S VERY DUBIOUS WE WILL SEE
DATA.
THAT IN OCTOBER OR NOVEMBER
>> Reporter: AND NO CHANGE MEANS
DATA.
CONTINUING TO BUY BONDS WITH
>> Reporter: AND NO CHANGE MEANS
MONEY THAT THE FED CREATES TO
CONTINUING TO BUY BONDS WITH
STIMULATE THE ECONOMY.
MONEY THAT THE FED CREATES TO
>> YEAH, I MEAN, THE LAST THING
STIMULATE THE ECONOMY.
THEY WOULD WANT TO DO IS IF THE
>> YEAH, I MEAN, THE LAST THING
SHUTDOWN GAVE TO CALMING A
THEY WOULD WANT TO DO IS IF THE
NEGATIVE KICK-- WHICH ITT
SHUTDOWN GAVE TO CALMING A
SURELY DID-- THEN CHANGE THEIR
NEGATIVE KICK-- WHICH ITT
POLICIES AND PUSH US INTO
SURELY DID-- THEN CHANGE THEIR
ANOTHER RECESSION.
POLICIES AND PUSH US INTO
>> SO WE SLOG AHEAD WHILE
ANOTHER RECESSION.
AWAITING NEXT MONTH'S JOB
>> SO WE SLOG AHEAD WHILE
NUMBERS WHICH, COURT ZI OF THE
AWAITING NEXT MONTH'S JOB
SHUTDOWN, WILL ALSO BE DELAYED
NUMBERS WHICH, COURT ZI OF THE
BY ONE WEEK AND ARE LIKELY TO BE
SHUTDOWN, WILL ALSO BE DELAYED
EVEN LESS ROUSING THAN
BY ONE WEEK AND ARE LIKELY TO BE
SEPTEMBER'S.
EVEN LESS ROUSING THAN
>> Ifill: ONLINE CHECK OUT THE
SEPTEMBER'S.
"SOLMAN SCALE," WHERE HE REMINDS
>> Ifill: ONLINE CHECK OUT THE
US THAT THERE ARE STILL MORE
"SOLMAN SCALE," WHERE HE REMINDS
THAN 25 MILLION AMERICANS WHO
US THAT THERE ARE STILL MORE
WANT A FULL-TIME JOB, BUT CAN'T
THAN 25 MILLION AMERICANS WHO
FIND ONE.
WANT A FULL-TIME JOB, BUT CAN'T
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO OUR
FIND ONE.
SERIES EXAMINING THE REPUBLICAN
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO OUR
PARTY'S CHALLENGES IN THE WAKE
SERIES EXAMINING THE REPUBLICAN
OF THE RECENT GOVERNMENT
PARTY'S CHALLENGES IN THE WAKE
SHUTDOWN BATTLE.
OF THE RECENT GOVERNMENT
I SPOKE LAST NIGHT WITH FORMER
SHUTDOWN BATTLE.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER TRENT
I SPOKE LAST NIGHT WITH FORMER
LOTT, WHO SAID HIS PARTY TOOK A
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER TRENT
POLITICAL HIT FROM THE FIGHT.
LOTT, WHO SAID HIS PARTY TOOK A
A NEW POLL FROM "USA TODAY" AND
POLITICAL HIT FROM THE FIGHT.
PRINCETON SURVEY RESEARCH FOUND
A NEW POLL FROM "USA TODAY" AND
47% THINK CONGRESS WOULD WORK
PRINCETON SURVEY RESEARCH FOUND
BETTER IF NEARLY EVERY SEAT
47% THINK CONGRESS WOULD WORK
CHANGED HANDS NEXT YEAR.
BETTER IF NEARLY EVERY SEAT
AND A "WASHINGTON POST"/ABC NEWS
CHANGED HANDS NEXT YEAR.
POLL SHOWED EIGHT IN TEN PEOPLE
AND A "WASHINGTON POST"/ABC NEWS
DISAPPROVED OF THE SHUTDOWN,
POLL SHOWED EIGHT IN TEN PEOPLE
WITH MOST BLAMING THE
DISAPPROVED OF THE SHUTDOWN,
REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS MORE
WITH MOST BLAMING THE
THAN PRESIDENT OBAMA.
REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS MORE
THE HOUSE RETURNED TO WORK TODAY
THAN PRESIDENT OBAMA.
FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE
THE HOUSE RETURNED TO WORK TODAY
LAWMAKERS VOTED TO REOPEN THE
FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE
GOVERNMENT.
LAWMAKERS VOTED TO REOPEN THE
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN TIM
GOVERNMENT.
HEULSKAMP FROM KANSAS OPPOSED
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN TIM
THE FUNDING COMPROMISE TO END
HEULSKAMP FROM KANSAS OPPOSED
THE SHUTDOWN.
THE FUNDING COMPROMISE TO END
HE JOINS ME NOW.
THE SHUTDOWN.
WELCOME.
HE JOINS ME NOW.
>> GOOD EVENING.
WELCOME.
>> Woodruff: HOW WOULD YOU
>> GOOD EVENING.
DESCRIBE THE HEALTH OF THE
>> Woodruff: HOW WOULD YOU
REPUBLICAN PARTY IN THE WAKE OF
DESCRIBE THE HEALTH OF THE
THE SHUTDOWN AND THE SHOWDOWN
REPUBLICAN PARTY IN THE WAKE OF
OVER THE DEBT KREILING?
THE SHUTDOWN AND THE SHOWDOWN
>> I PRESUME THERE ARE A LOT OF
OVER THE DEBT KREILING?
POLLS OUT THERE, I HAVE BEEN NOT
>> I PRESUME THERE ARE A LOT OF
BEEN WATCHING THOSE.
POLLS OUT THERE, I HAVE BEEN NOT
I DO LOOK AT THEM OCCASIONALLY
BEEN WATCHING THOSE.
BUT THE OTHER DAY -- AT THE END
I DO LOOK AT THEM OCCASIONALLY
OF THE DAY AMERICANS DON'T LIKE
BUT THE OTHER DAY -- AT THE END
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN WASHINGTON
OF THE DAY AMERICANS DON'T LIKE
AND THEY WOULD LIKE CHANGE AND
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN WASHINGTON
THE AGREEMENT, THE DEAL LAST
AND THEY WOULD LIKE CHANGE AND
WEEK WAS BASICALLY STATUS QUO:
THE AGREEMENT, THE DEAL LAST
RAISE THE DEBT CEILING, DON'T
WEEK WAS BASICALLY STATUS QUO:
CUT SPENDING, DON'T DO ANYTHING
RAISE THE DEBT CEILING, DON'T
ABOUT ENTITLEMENTS AND AT THE
CUT SPENDING, DON'T DO ANYTHING
END OF THE DAY THE POLITICAL
ABOUT ENTITLEMENTS AND AT THE
ESTABLISHMENT WON, AMERICANS
END OF THE DAY THE POLITICAL
LOST AND THEY'RE UPSET ABOUT IT.
ESTABLISHMENT WON, AMERICANS
>> Woodruff: WE SAW, AS I JUST
LOST AND THEY'RE UPSET ABOUT IT.
MENTIONED, IT'S NOT JUST THE
>> Woodruff: WE SAW, AS I JUST
MAJORITY OF REPUBLICANS AND THE
MENTIONED, IT'S NOT JUST THE
MAJORITY OF TEA PARTY MEMBERS
MAJORITY OF REPUBLICANS AND THE
WHO SAY THEY THINK IT WAS A
MAJORITY OF TEA PARTY MEMBERS
MISTAKE TO USE A THREAT TO NOT
WHO SAY THEY THINK IT WAS A
RAISE THE DEBT CEILING TO SHUT
MISTAKE TO USE A THREAT TO NOT
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT
RAISE THE DEBT CEILING TO SHUT
REPUBLICANS MADE A MISTAKE AND
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT
HURT THEMSELVES.
REPUBLICANS MADE A MISTAKE AND
>> WELL, THERE ARE FOLKS THAT
HURT THEMSELVES.
PROBABLY WENT BACK HOME TRYING
>> WELL, THERE ARE FOLKS THAT
TO EXPLAIN WHY THEY --
PROBABLY WENT BACK HOME TRYING
PARTICULARLY IF THEY WERE IN THE
TO EXPLAIN WHY THEY --
U.S. SENATE WHO DID NOTHING FOR
PARTICULARLY IF THEY WERE IN THE
THREE YEARS TO ROLL BACK
U.S. SENATE WHO DID NOTHING FOR
OBAMACARE AND I UNDERSTAND THE
THREE YEARS TO ROLL BACK
DIFFICULTY EXPLAINING THAT BUT
OBAMACARE AND I UNDERSTAND THE
THE KANSANS I TALKED TO AND THE
DIFFICULTY EXPLAINING THAT BUT
AMERICANS I TALK TO ABOUT THE
THE KANSANS I TALKED TO AND THE
REST OF THE NATION THEY'RE
AMERICANS I TALK TO ABOUT THE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE FUTURE.
REST OF THE NATION THEY'RE
THEY'RE NOT WORRIED ABOUT THE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE FUTURE.
NEXT ELECTION, THEY'RE SAYING
THEY'RE NOT WORRIED ABOUT THE
WHAT ARE YOU DOING ABOUT
NEXT ELECTION, THEY'RE SAYING
OBAMACARE TO MAKE SURE YOU MAKE
WHAT ARE YOU DOING ABOUT
IT FAIR, IF YOU'RE GOING TO GIVE
OBAMACARE TO MAKE SURE YOU MAKE
AN EXEMPTION TO BIG BUSINESS,
IT FAIR, IF YOU'RE GOING TO GIVE
MR. PRESIDENT, GIVE IT TO THE
AN EXEMPTION TO BIG BUSINESS,
REST OF THE AMERICANS.
MR. PRESIDENT, GIVE IT TO THE
THAT WAS PART OF THE DEAL WE
REST OF THE AMERICANS.
TALKED ABOUT.
THAT WAS PART OF THE DEAL WE
THEY DON'T WANT TO INCREASE DEBT
TALKED ABOUT.
UNLESS WE HAVE THE PLAN TO PAY
THEY DON'T WANT TO INCREASE DEBT
IT OFF AND THIS SENATE US THE
UNLESS WE HAVE THE PLAN TO PAY
QUO DEAL DID NOTHING ABOUT THAT.
IT OFF AND THIS SENATE US THE
TO I WOULD BE HARD PRESSED TO
QUO DEAL DID NOTHING ABOUT THAT.
FIND ANYONE THAT LIKES THE DEAL
TO I WOULD BE HARD PRESSED TO
THAT CAME OUT OF THE AGREEMENT
FIND ANYONE THAT LIKES THE DEAL
LAST WEEK.
THAT CAME OUT OF THE AGREEMENT
>> Woodruff: GIVEN THAT,
LAST WEEK.
CONGRESSMAN HUELSKAMP, LAST
>> Woodruff: GIVEN THAT,
NIGHT AS I MENTIONED WE
CONGRESSMAN HUELSKAMP, LAST
INTERVIEWED THE FORMER SENATE
NIGHT AS I MENTIONED WE
MAJORITY LEADER TRENT LOTT, A
INTERVIEWED THE FORMER SENATE
CONSERVATIVE ROBE, WHO SAID HE
MAJORITY LEADER TRENT LOTT, A
DID THINK THE STRATEGY OF THE
CONSERVATIVE ROBE, WHO SAID HE
SHUTDOWN WAS A MISTAKE AND HE
DID THINK THE STRATEGY OF THE
SAID IT'S TIME FOR THE
SHUTDOWN WAS A MISTAKE AND HE
REPUBLICANS TO MOVE OFF THE
SAID IT'S TIME FOR THE
FOCUS ON THE HEALTH CARE LAW AND
REPUBLICANS TO MOVE OFF THE
RETURN TO A MORE POSITIVE FOCUS.
FOCUS ON THE HEALTH CARE LAW AND
HE SAID IT'S TIME TO TALK ABOUT
RETURN TO A MORE POSITIVE FOCUS.
CREATING JOBS, TIME TO TALK
HE SAID IT'S TIME TO TALK ABOUT
ABOUT ENERGY, AND HE MENTIONED
CREATING JOBS, TIME TO TALK
OTHER ISSUES.
ABOUT ENERGY, AND HE MENTIONED
HE SAID REPUBLICANS SHOULD BE
OTHER ISSUES.
TALKING ABOUT THEM NOW.
HE SAID REPUBLICANS SHOULD BE
>> YES AND I AGREE WITH SOME OF
TALKING ABOUT THEM NOW.
THOSE THINGS THAT THE FORMER
>> YES AND I AGREE WITH SOME OF
SENATOR SAID BUT ONE THING A LOT
THOSE THINGS THAT THE FORMER
OF FOLKS THAT USED TO BE IN
SENATOR SAID BUT ONE THING A LOT
WASHINGTON ARE STILL HERE AND
OF FOLKS THAT USED TO BE IN
HAVE BEEN HERE FOR YEARS DON'T
WASHINGTON ARE STILL HERE AND
UNDERSTAND IS THAT WE HAVE $17
HAVE BEEN HERE FOR YEARS DON'T
TRILLION OF DEBT AND IT'S U.S.
UNDERSTAND IS THAT WE HAVE $17
SENATORS LIKE YOU MENTIONED AND
TRILLION OF DEBT AND IT'S U.S.
OTHERS THAT HELPED BUILD THAT
SENATORS LIKE YOU MENTIONED AND
DEBT.
OTHERS THAT HELPED BUILD THAT
IT WASN'T A REPUBLICAN OR
DEBT.
DEMOCRAT PROBLEM AND I'M A
IT WASN'T A REPUBLICAN OR
MEMBER OF THE TEA PARTY AND I
DEMOCRAT PROBLEM AND I'M A
FLARE KANSANS THEY DON'T CARE
MEMBER OF THE TEA PARTY AND I
WHAT THE PARTY IS, GIVE US A
FLARE KANSANS THEY DON'T CARE
SOLUTION.
WHAT THE PARTY IS, GIVE US A
FIGURE OUT A WAY TO REFORM
SOLUTION.
ENTITLEMENTS.
FIGURE OUT A WAY TO REFORM
LET'S GROW THE ECONOMY THAT WAY.
ENTITLEMENTS.
LET'S NOT RAISE TAXES LIKE
LET'S GROW THE ECONOMY THAT WAY.
HAPPENED IN JANUARY.
LET'S NOT RAISE TAXES LIKE
IS THEY'RE SICK OF WASHINGTON
HAPPENED IN JANUARY.
AND THE STATUS QUO AND WISH
IS THEY'RE SICK OF WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON WOULD LISTEN TO THEM
AND THE STATUS QUO AND WISH
AND THAT WAS PART OF THE DEBATE.
WASHINGTON WOULD LISTEN TO THEM
WE LOST THAT BATTLE HERE IN
AND THAT WAS PART OF THE DEBATE.
WASHINGTON BUT I DON'T THINK WE
WE LOST THAT BATTLE HERE IN
LOST THE DEBATE.
WASHINGTON BUT I DON'T THINK WE
I THINK AT THE END OF THE DAY
LOST THE DEBATE.
FOR CONSERVATIVE WES LOST THE
I THINK AT THE END OF THE DAY
BATTLE BUT WE ARE GOING TO TWIN
FOR CONSERVATIVE WES LOST THE
WAR.
BATTLE BUT WE ARE GOING TO TWIN
JUST LOOK AT THE DEBACLE OF THE
WAR.
ROLLOUT OF OBAMACARE.
JUST LOOK AT THE DEBACLE OF THE
THAT'S ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF WHY WE
ROLLOUT OF OBAMACARE.
HAVE TO CONTINUE TO TALK ABOUT
THAT'S ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF WHY WE
THAT LAW AND HOW BAD IT IS FOR
HAVE TO CONTINUE TO TALK ABOUT
THE ECONOMY AND HOW BAD IT WILL
THAT LAW AND HOW BAD IT IS FOR
BE FOR FUTURE BUDGET DEFICITS.
THE ECONOMY AND HOW BAD IT WILL
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTION THOSE
BE FOR FUTURE BUDGET DEFICITS.
REPUBLICANS WHO DISAGREE WITH
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTION THOSE
THE STRATEGY MAY BE RESPONSIBLE,
REPUBLICANS WHO DISAGREE WITH
SOME OF THEM STILL SERVING IN
THE STRATEGY MAY BE RESPONSIBLE,
CONGRESS.
SOME OF THEM STILL SERVING IN
DO YOU AGREE WITH THE STRATEGY,
CONGRESS.
CONGRESSMAN, OF RUNNING MORE
DO YOU AGREE WITH THE STRATEGY,
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICANS AGAINST
CONGRESSMAN, OF RUNNING MORE
THOSE REPUBLICANS WHO DID NOT
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICANS AGAINST
SUPPORT THIS -- THE ENDING THIS
THOSE REPUBLICANS WHO DID NOT
THIS SHUTDOWN RECENTLY?
SUPPORT THIS -- THE ENDING THIS
>> I THINK THAT MIGHT BE WHAT
THIS SHUTDOWN RECENTLY?
OCCURS, THAT
>> I THINK THAT MIGHT BE WHAT
DISTRICT-BY-DISTRICT DECISION,
OCCURS, THAT
INDIVIDUAL DECISION BY
DISTRICT-BY-DISTRICT DECISION,
CANDIDATES BUT, YEAH, I THINK
INDIVIDUAL DECISION BY
WILL BE CONSERVATIVES THAT HAVE
CANDIDATES BUT, YEAH, I THINK
DECIDED THEY'RE GOING TO RUN
WILL BE CONSERVATIVES THAT HAVE
AGAINST THE INCUMBENT REPUBLICAN
DECIDED THEY'RE GOING TO RUN
BECAUSE HERE'S WHAT HAPPENED.
AGAINST THE INCUMBENT REPUBLICAN
EVERY REPUBLICAN IN THE HOUSE,
BECAUSE HERE'S WHAT HAPPENED.
EVERY REPUBLICAN IN THE SENATE
EVERY REPUBLICAN IN THE HOUSE,
WHEN THEY RAN TWO YEARS AGO OR
EVERY REPUBLICAN IN THE SENATE
FOUR YEARS AGO SAID HEY, WE'RE
WHEN THEY RAN TWO YEARS AGO OR
OZ OPPOSING OBAMACARE.
FOUR YEARS AGO SAID HEY, WE'RE
BUT OFTEN TIMES THEIR RHETORIC
OZ OPPOSING OBAMACARE.
IS NOT MATCHED BY ACTION.
BUT OFTEN TIMES THEIR RHETORIC
AND SO, YEAH, FOLKS WILL BE
IS NOT MATCHED BY ACTION.
RUNNING AGAINST HIM BUT SAY THEY
AND SO, YEAH, FOLKS WILL BE
SAY, DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
RUNNING AGAINST HIM BUT SAY THEY
THERE ARE FOLKS CURRENTLY IN THE
SAY, DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
U.S. SENATE THAT SAY, HEY, THAT
THERE ARE FOLKS CURRENTLY IN THE
WASN'T A GOOD STRATEGY BUT THEY
U.S. SENATE THAT SAY, HEY, THAT
HAD NO STRATEGY OTHER THAN
WASN'T A GOOD STRATEGY BUT THEY
GIVING THE PRESIDENT EVERYTHING
HAD NO STRATEGY OTHER THAN
THEY WANTED AND THAT'S A LOSING
GIVING THE PRESIDENT EVERYTHING
STRATEGY AS WELL.
THEY WANTED AND THAT'S A LOSING
BUT THE OTHER DAY WE HAD TO
STRATEGY AS WELL.
FOCUS ON GROWING AND THE ECONOMY
BUT THE OTHER DAY WE HAD TO
HAD TO FOCUS ON THIS MASSIVE
FOCUS ON GROWING AND THE ECONOMY
DEBT.
HAD TO FOCUS ON THIS MASSIVE
DO YOU KNOW THIS AGREEMENT WILL
DEBT.
LOCK IN ANOTHER $700 BILLION
DO YOU KNOW THIS AGREEMENT WILL
WORTH OF DEFICITS.
LOCK IN ANOTHER $700 BILLION
THAT'S NO GOOD FOR ANY AMERICAN
WORTH OF DEFICITS.
THAT I TALK TO.
THAT'S NO GOOD FOR ANY AMERICAN
>> Woodruff: WHO DO YOU SEE,
THAT I TALK TO.
CONGRESSMAN, AS THE LEADER OF
>> Woodruff: WHO DO YOU SEE,
YOUR PARTY RIGHT NOW?
CONGRESSMAN, AS THE LEADER OF
>> I THINK THERE ARE A LOT OF
YOUR PARTY RIGHT NOW?
LEADERS.
>> I THINK THERE ARE A LOT OF
I WOULD HOPE IT'S AMERICANS,
LEADERS.
CONSERVATIVES AT HOME ENGAGED IN
I WOULD HOPE IT'S AMERICANS,
THE PARTY AT THE LOCAL AND STATE
CONSERVATIVES AT HOME ENGAGED IN
LEVEL.
THE PARTY AT THE LOCAL AND STATE
THERE ARE A LOT OF LEADERS IAT'S
LEVEL.
DIFFERENT THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
THERE ARE A LOT OF LEADERS IAT'S
COMPARED TO THE DEMOCRAT PARTY
DIFFERENT THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
IS THAT WE'RE NOT RUN BY ONE
COMPARED TO THE DEMOCRAT PARTY
PERSON AT THE TOP THAT CONTROLS
IS THAT WE'RE NOT RUN BY ONE
EVERYTHING OR ATTEMPTS TO DO SO
PERSON AT THE TOP THAT CONTROLS
LIKE THE PRESIDENT BUT THAT, YOU
EVERYTHING OR ATTEMPTS TO DO SO
KNOW, THERE ARE A LOT OF FOLKS
LIKE THE PRESIDENT BUT THAT, YOU
ENGAGED, THEY'RE WORRIED ABOUT
KNOW, THERE ARE A LOT OF FOLKS
THE FUTURE AND THEY HAVE TO
ENGAGED, THEY'RE WORRIED ABOUT
LISTEN TO THE PEOPLE BACK HOME.
THE FUTURE AND THEY HAVE TO
REPUBLICANS GET IN TROUBLE WHEN
LISTEN TO THE PEOPLE BACK HOME.
THEY LISTEN TO WASHINGTON AND
REPUBLICANS GET IN TROUBLE WHEN
INSIDERS UP HERE RATHER THAN THE
THEY LISTEN TO WASHINGTON AND
CONSTITUENTS I LISTEN TO.
INSIDERS UP HERE RATHER THAN THE
>> Woodruff: BUT THERE ARE THOSE
CONSTITUENTS I LISTEN TO.
REPUBLICANS WHO SAY THE
>> Woodruff: BUT THERE ARE THOSE
CONSTITUENTS YOU'RE TALKING
REPUBLICANS WHO SAY THE
ABOUT DON'T REPRESENT THE
CONSTITUENTS YOU'RE TALKING
MAJORITY OF AMERICANS, THAT THAT
ABOUT DON'T REPRESENT THE
IS YES, IT'S A SLICE OF THE
MAJORITY OF AMERICANS, THAT THAT
AMERICAN ELECTORATE BUT NOT THE
IS YES, IT'S A SLICE OF THE
MAJORITY AND THE MEMBERS OF
AMERICAN ELECTORATE BUT NOT THE
CONGRESS NEED TO THINK MORE
MAJORITY AND THE MEMBERS OF
ABOUT THE WELFARE OF THE WHOLE
CONGRESS NEED TO THINK MORE
COUNTRY.
ABOUT THE WELFARE OF THE WHOLE
>> Reporter: OBAMACARE IS A
COUNTRY.
GREAT EXAMPLE.
>> Reporter: OBAMACARE IS A
MOST AMERICANS DO NOT LIKE
GREAT EXAMPLE.
OBAMACARE, THEY CERTAINLY DON'T
MOST AMERICANS DO NOT LIKE
LIKE THAT ROLLOUT.
OBAMACARE, THEY CERTAINLY DON'T
THEY DON'T LIKE MASSIVE
LIKE THAT ROLLOUT.
DEFICITS.
THEY DON'T LIKE MASSIVE
THEY DON'T WANT TAX INCREASES
DEFICITS.
AND THAT'S WHAT THEY GOT FOR THE
THEY DON'T WANT TAX INCREASES
LAST YEAR AND FOR THOSE
AND THAT'S WHAT THEY GOT FOR THE
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS TO SAY
LAST YEAR AND FOR THOSE
HEY, YOU KNOW WHAT?
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS TO SAY
I'M GOING TO NOT LISTEN TO THOSE
HEY, YOU KNOW WHAT?
PEOPLE CONCERNED ABOUT IT WHEN
I'M GOING TO NOT LISTEN TO THOSE
IT'S AN OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF
PEOPLE CONCERNED ABOUT IT WHEN
AMERICANS SAYING HEY, WE'RE
IT'S AN OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF
WORRIED ABOUT THE FUTURE, TOO
AMERICANS SAYING HEY, WE'RE
MANY POLITICIANS AREN'T
WORRIED ABOUT THE FUTURE, TOO
LISTENING AND THEY'RE WORRIED
MANY POLITICIANS AREN'T
ABOUT TOMORROW AND THE NEXT
LISTENING AND THEY'RE WORRIED
ELECTION AND I GUESS THAT'S
ABOUT TOMORROW AND THE NEXT
IMPORTANT IN THE POLITICAL
ELECTION AND I GUESS THAT'S
REALM.
IMPORTANT IN THE POLITICAL
AT THE END OF THE DAY THEY WANT
REALM.
TO SAY IS MEDICARE SECURE.
AT THE END OF THE DAY THEY WANT
CAN THEY GET HEALTH INSURANCE?
TO SAY IS MEDICARE SECURE.
CAN THEY HAVE A JOB?
CAN THEY GET HEALTH INSURANCE?
25 MILLION AMERICANS WANT A
CAN THEY HAVE A JOB?
FULL-TIME JOB AND CAN'T FIND
25 MILLION AMERICANS WANT A
ONE.
FULL-TIME JOB AND CAN'T FIND
THE WORST ECONOMIC RECOVERY
ONE.
SINCE THE GREAT DEPRESSION.
THE WORST ECONOMIC RECOVERY
THOSE ARE THE QUESTIONS ON THEIR
SINCE THE GREAT DEPRESSION.
MIND AND THEY WISH WASHINGTON
THOSE ARE THE QUESTIONS ON THEIR
WOULD BE HELP INFORMAL MAKING
MIND AND THEY WISH WASHINGTON
THAT HAPPEN.
WOULD BE HELP INFORMAL MAKING
>> Woodruff: FINAL QUICK
THAT HAPPEN.
QUESTION: DO YOU THINK WE'LL SEE
>> Woodruff: FINAL QUICK
ANOTHER SHOWDOWN OVER HEALTH
QUESTION: DO YOU THINK WE'LL SEE
CARE AND A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
ANOTHER SHOWDOWN OVER HEALTH
POTENTIALLY.
CARE AND A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
>> I DO NOT KNOW.
POTENTIALLY.
THAT IS A GREAT QUESTION.
>> I DO NOT KNOW.
I WE SHALL I KNEW THE ANSWER TO
THAT IS A GREAT QUESTION.
THAT.
I WE SHALL I KNEW THE ANSWER TO
BUT WITH THE DEBACLE OF THE
THAT.
ROLLOUT OF OBAMACARE, THE ONLY
BUT WITH THE DEBACLE OF THE
WAY TO AVOID THAT PROBLEM IS FOR
ROLLOUT OF OBAMACARE, THE ONLY
THE ADMINISTRATION TO ANNOUNCE
WAY TO AVOID THAT PROBLEM IS FOR
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO DELAY THE
THE ADMINISTRATION TO ANNOUNCE
INDIVIDUAL MANDATE LIKE THEY DID
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO DELAY THE
FOR BIG BUSINESSES AND LIKE
INDIVIDUAL MANDATE LIKE THEY DID
THEY'VE DONE FOR MEMBERS OF
FOR BIG BUSINESSES AND LIKE
CONGRESS.
THEY'VE DONE FOR MEMBERS OF
I THINK THAT WOULD AVOID THE
CONGRESS.
SHUTDOWN AND AVOID THIS DEBACLE
I THINK THAT WOULD AVOID THE
THAT WILL HAS OCCURRED WITH IF
SHUTDOWN AND AVOID THIS DEBACLE
THIS ROLLOUT IN THE LAST FEW
THAT WILL HAS OCCURRED WITH IF
WEEKS.
THIS ROLLOUT IN THE LAST FEW
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN TIM
WEEKS.
HUELSKAMP, THANK YOU FOR TALKING
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN TIM
WITH US.
HUELSKAMP, THANK YOU FOR TALKING
>> THANK YOU.
WITH US.
>> Ifill: NOW TO THE MIDDLE EAST
>> THANK YOU.
AND AN EMERGING SPLIT BETWEEN
>> Ifill: NOW TO THE MIDDLE EAST
THE UNITED STATES' AND ITS LONG-
AND AN EMERGING SPLIT BETWEEN
TIME ALLY, SAUDI ARABIA.
THE UNITED STATES' AND ITS LONG-
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THE APPARENT RIFT
BECAME PUBLIC LATE LAST WEEK
FOLLOWING A VOTE IN THE UNITED
NATIONS THAT ELECTED SAUDI
ARABIA TO THE SECURITY COUNCIL,
THE SEAT THE SAUDIS LONG COVET
THEN CAME THE STUNNING RESPONSE
ON STATE TELEVISION.
>> ( translated ): THE KINGDOM
HAS NO OTHER OPTION BUT TO TURN
DOWN SECURITY COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP
UNTIL IT IS REFORMED AND GIVEN
THE MEANS TO ACCOMPLISH ITS
DUTIES AND ASSUME ITS
RESPONSIBILITIES IN PRESERVING
THE WORLD'S PEACE AND SECURITY.
>> Brown: TODAY'S "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" REPORTED IT'S PART OF A
BROADER MESSAGE.
THE ACCOUNT SAID THE HEAD OF
SAUDI INTELLIGENCE, PRINCE
BANDAR, A FORMER SAUDI ENVOY TO
WASHINGTON, IS TRYING TO
DISTANCE THE KINGDOM FROM THE
U.S.
IT CITED SAUDI ANGER AT A
PERCEIVED LACK OF SUPPORT FOR
SYRIAN REBELS AND THE U.S.
DECISION NOT TO ATTACK AFTER THE
ASSAD REGIME'S APPARENT USE OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
RESPONDED IN LONDON AT A MEETING
OF NATIONS BACKING THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION.
>> WE KNOW THAT THE SAUDIS WERE
OBVIOUSLY DISAPPOINTED THAT THE
STRIKE DIDN'T TAKE PLACE AND
HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT SOME OF THE
OTHER THINGS THAT MAY BE
HAPPENING IN THE REGION.
>> Brown: KERRY ALSO
ACKNOWLEDGED SAUDI CONCERNS
ABOUT AMERICAN DIPLOMACY WITH
IRAN ON THE NUCLEAR ISSUE.
PLUS, WASHINGTON'S EARLIER
SUPPORT FOR THE NOW-DEPOSED
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD GOVERNMENT IN
EGYPT.
AND THE U.S. ROLE IN THE
ARAB/ISRAELI PEACE PROCESS.
>> I'LL TELL YOU THAT ON EGYPT
BOTH OF OUR COUNTRIES WANT TO
SEE A SUCCESSFUL RETURN TO AN
INCLUSIVE DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT
WITH PROGRESS ON THE INTERIM
GOVERNMENT'S SPECIFIED ROAD MAP.
ON THE MIDDLE EAST PEACE, SAUDI
ARABIA HAS BEEN A CRITICAL
PARTNER.
JUST YESTERDAY WE REAFFIRMED THE
SAUDI COMMITMENT TOLL THE ARAB
-- SAUDI COMMITMENT TO ITS OWN
INITIATIVE.
A VERY SIGNIFICANT INITIATIVE.
IN ADDITION, SAUDI ARABIA AND
THE UNITED STATES SHARE WITH
ALMOST EVERY OTHER COUNTRY WITH
IN THE REGION DEEP CONCERN ABOUT
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND ITS
IMPACT ON THE REGION.
AND WE HAD A VERY FRANK
CONVERSATION YESTERDAY ABOUT
THAT.
I THINK THEY UNDERSTAND EXACTLY
WHAT THE UNITED STATES IS
ENGAGED IN.
>> Brown: FOR THEIR PART, THE
SAUDIS HAD NO OFFICIAL COMMENT
ON THE STATE OF THE
RELATIONSHIP.
AND TO FIND OUT MORE ON HOW THE
RIFT IS PLAYING OUT BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS AND THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE RELATIONSHIP I'M JOINED
BY OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
AND GRAEME BANNERMAN, A SCHOLAR
AT THE MIDDLE EAST INSTITUTE AND
FORMER STATE DEPARTMENT ANALYST.
MARGARET, FIRST OF ALL, HOW BIG
A SURPRISE HAS ALL OF THIS BEEN
TO U.S. OFFICIALS?
WHAT HAVE YOU BEEN ABLE TO
LEARN?
>> JEFF, IT WAS AS BIG A
SURPRISE TO U.S. OFFICIALS AS IT
WAS TO SAUDI OFFICIALS AT THE
U.N..
IF YOU'VE SEEN THIS PHOTOGRAPH
AFTER THE VOTE, VOTING THEM IN,
THE SAUDI AMBASSADOR WAS THERE
WITH THE BIG THUMBS UP AND THE
BIG SMILE.
SO THE U.S. HAS -- IT CAME AS A
SHOCK TO THE UNITED STATES
OFFICIALS AS WELL.
THERE WAS NO ADVANCED WARNING,
WHICH IS UNUSUAL BETWEEN TWO
ALLIES LIKE THIS, AND THEY HAVE
CONCLUDED THAT IT DEFINITELY HAD
TO COME FROM THE HIGHEST LEVELS.
NOT JUST PRINCE BANDAR WHO WAS
SENDING A CERTAIN SIGNAL WITH
THAT ARTICLE BUT KING ABDULLAH
HIMSELF AND THE FOREIGN MINISTER
SAUD.
>> Brown: GRAEME BANNERMAN, HOW
UNUSUAL IS THIS?
ESPECIALLY SINCE, AS MARGARET
SAID, BOTH SIDES WERE TAKEN BY
SURPRISE.
>> I THINK IT'S UNUSUAL BUT A
DEMONSTRATION OF THE
FRUSTRATIONS IN SAUDI ARABIA
OVER AMERICAN POLICIES IN THE
REGION AND OVER THE NUMBER OF
ISSUES IN WHICH WE HAVE SEVERE
DISAGREEMENTS.
I MEAN, HISTORICALLY WE'VE
DISAGREED ON THE ARAB YOU
ISRAELI PROCESS AND WE'VE AGREED
TO DISAGREE BUT WITH THE
POTENTIAL IMPROVING RELATIONSHIP
IN IRAN, THE FAILURE TO ACT IN
SYRIA AND ALSO IN EGYPT, THE
SECRETARY CAN SAY WE'RE IN
AGREEMENT WITH THEM ON THE
FUTURE, WE'RE TAKING VERY
DIVERGENT COURSES.
WHEN THE FOREIGN MINISTER SAYS
THEY WILL MAKE UP FOR ANY AID
LOSS IT IS EGYPTIANS SUFFER
BECAUSE OF THE CURRENT
GERNMOVENT'S NOT IN GOOD ORDER
IN WASHINGTON.
>> Brown: SO YOUR SENSE IT'S NOT
JUST ONE THING LIKE SYRIA BUT
ALL OF THE ABOVE?
>> ALL OF THE ABOVE, IT'S A
CUMULATIVE PROBLEM THAT THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP 40 YEARS
AGO WHEN I WAS THE SAUDI ANALYST
AND INTELLIGENCE BUREAU IN THE
STATE DEPARTMENT WE WROTE
ENDLESS PAPERS ABOUT THE SPECIAL
RELATIONSHIP.
THE CORE IS STILL THERE.
THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO
INCREASE OR DECREASE OIL
CAPACITY AND WE HAVE THE ABILITY
TO PROTECT THE REGION.
THAT SAID, ALL OF THESE OTHER
ISSUES ARE BUILDING ON THE
OUTSIDE AND THEY'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT IT AND THIS IS THEIR
SENDING A SIGNAL TO WASHINGTON.
>> Brown: IS THIS HOW IT'S BEING
TAKEN?
>> IT'S BEING TAKEN BY THE MORE
SOBER MINDED PEOPLE IN THE
ADMINISTRATION THAT IT'S ALL THE
ISSUES MR. BANNER MAN JUST SAID
AND REALLY ROOTED IN A DEEP
DIVISION OVE THER MEANING AND
FUTURE OF THE WHOLE ARAB SPRING.
SO SAUDI ARABIA, WHICH WANTS TO
MAINTAIN STABILITY IN THE GULF
AND ALL THESE GULF KINGDOMS DO
SEE THE ANTITRUST THEIR VIEW
EAGERLY EMBRACING OPPOSITION
MOVEMENTS, THROWING LONG-TIME
ALLIES AS THEY SEE IT LIKE
PRESIDENT MUBARAK UNDER THE BUS
AND WHEN SAUDI ARABIA SENT
TROOPS INTO BAHRAIN TO QUELL THE
UPRISING THERE OR REALLY JUST
PROTESTS IN TWELVE, THE U.S.
OFFERED CRITICISM.
MUTED, YES, BUT CRITICISM.
AND SO THERE'S REALLY, I WOULD
SAY, A KIND OF LOSS OF
CONFIDENCE IN WHERE U.S.
LEADERSHIP IS GOING AND WHETHER
TO OUR ALLIES IN THE REGION WE
STILL CONSIDER THEM KEY ALLIES.
>> Brown: MR. BANNERMAN, YOU
WERE TALKING ABOUT YOUR LONG
EXPERIENCE THERE.
THIS IS A DEEP RELATIONSHIP,
RIGHT?
>> TRULY.
>> EXPLAIN IT.
PUT THE PRESENT INTO THAT LARGER
CONTEXT.
HOW IMPORTANT IS THIS
RELATIONSHIP?
HAS IT BEEN?
>> THIS RELATIONSHIP HAS BEEN A
CORNERSTONE OF THE AMERICAN
RELATIONS IN THE REGION FOR 50
YEARS.
AS THAT HAS RELATIONSHIP WITH
EGYPT SINCE PEACE TREATY.
WE HAVE BOTH THOSE COUNTRIES,
THE FUTURE OF THAT RELATIONSHIP
SUBPOENA IN QUESTION NOW FROM
THE POLICIES WE'RE UNDERTAKING
SO I THINK THE UNITED STATES IS
FACING THE POTENTIAL OF SERIOUS
CHANGES IN THE BALANCE OF FORCES
IN THE REGION BECAUSE OUR
RELATIONSHIP IS CHANGEING WITH
THE TWO STATES THAT ARE MOST
IMPORTANT TO US.
>> Brown: WHICH HAS POTENTIAL IN
WHAT KIND OF AREAS?
ALL KINDS OF AREAS?
>> ACROSS THE REGION.
BECAUSE OUR RELATION SBHIP SAUDI
ARABIA AND EGYPT WE HAVE BEEN
THE DOMINANT FORCE FOR THE LAST
50 YEARS.
THERE'S BEEN NO RIVALS.
THE SOVIET UNION IS GONE, RUSSIA
IS THERE.
NO ONE HAS BEEN ABLE TO RIVAL
US.
IF THESE RELATIONSHIPS TWO
CHANGE, THE AMERICAN ROLE IN THE
REGION WOULD BE REDUCED.
WE'RE STILL THE WORLD'S MOST
IMPORTANT POWER, WE STILL WILL
BE IMPORTANT THERE BUT OUR
POSITION WILL BE DIFFERENT.
>> Brown: ONE PART OF THAT
RELATIONSHIP CLEARLY IS
MILITARY.
YOU WERE ABLE TO TALK SFO U.S.
MILITARY OFFICIALS.
>> FORMER MILITARY OFFICIALS.
IT'S BEEN THE CRUCIAL MILITARY
RELATIONSHIP ALONG WITH THE U.S.
RELATIONSHIP WITH EGYPT IN THE
JOHN SINCE THE EARLY '50s.
THE U.S. IS THE MAJOR ARMS
SUPPLIER TO SAUDI ARABIA.
IT HAS A COMMITMENT TO PROTECT
THE KINGDOM.
THE KINGDOM HAS ALREADY REGARDED
THAT AS A BULL WORK OF THEIR
FLOGS.
BULWARK.
SO FOR SAUDI ARABIA -- THE U.S.
STILL MAINTAINS-- DESPITE A VERY
OSTENTATIOUS WITHDRAWAL OF U.S.
FORCES AFTER THE FIRST GULF
WAR-- STILL MAINTAINS A PRESENCE
THERE TO TRAIN AND EQUIP AND
MANAGE THE WEAPONRY THAT WE
STOLE SAUDI ARABIA.
I'M TOLD THERE'S A TWO-STAR
SDWLEN THAT THE U.S. HELPS TRAIN
THE SAUDI NATIONAL GUARD, ONE
JOB OF WHICH HAVE IS TO PROTECT
SAUDI ROYAL FAMILY.
ON THE OTHER HAND -- THERE SO
IT'S HARD TO KNOW WHERE THEY
WOULD GO FOR THIS WEAPONRY.
ON THE OTHER HAND, TO THE U.S.
IT'S ALSO VERY IMPORTANT.
THEY WERE AN IMPORTANT ALLY IN
THE FIRST GULF WAR.
THE ROLE IS A LITTLE MURKIER IN
THE SECOND IRAQ WAR, THEY
PUBLICLY TOOK A NEUTRAL STANCE
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS THAT
THEY WERE HELP INFORMAL THAT.
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS,
UNCONFIRMED, OF SECRET U.S.
DRONE BASES IN SAUDI ARABIA MORE
RECENTLY BECAUSE THE U.S. AND
SAUDI ARABIA STILL SHARE THE
GOAL OF COMBATING JIHADI
TERRORISM.
SO IT'S HARD TO SEE HOW THAT
MILITARY RELATIONSHIP GETS
EXTRICATED BUT IF THE POLITICAL
BONDS DO THEN, YOU KNOW, WHO
KNOWS?
>> Brown: WELL, GRAEME BANNERMAN
TO THE EXTENT THAT U.S.
OFFICIALS WERE TAKEN BY SURPRISE
BY ALL OF THIS, WHAT ARE THE
OPTIONS FOR THE U.S. AT THIS
POINT TO EITHER RIGHT THE SHIP
OR RESPOND IN SOME WAY?
>> WELL, I THINK THE ISSUE IS WE
WERE NOT PAYING ENOUGH ATTENTION
TO THE FEELINGS THAT WERE
ANALYZED IN THE REGION.
I THINK THIS IS MORE OF A
STATEMENT SAYING SEE, WE HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH YOU, WE NEED TO
CONFER BETTER, WE NEED TAKE --
YOU NEED TO TAKE SAUDI ARABIA
MORE INTO ACCOUNT.
I THINK THAT SHOULD BE THE GOAL.
THE THE.
>> AND OTHER U.S. ALLIES IN THE
REGION-- THE EGYPTIANS HAVE SAID
PUBLICLY AND PRIVATELY AS WELL
THAT THEY ALL FEEL NOW THEY'RE
TOO DEPENDENT ON THE U.S.,
PARTICULARLY MILITARILY AND
POLITICALLY AND ONE MIDDLE EAST
DIPLOMAT SAID TO ME TODAY, YOU
KNOW, WE NOW -- WHAT IF THE U.S.
DECIDED FOR SOME REASON NOT TO
SUPPLY SPARE PARTS FOR ALL THE
MILITARY HARDWARE WE BUY FROM
THE U.S.?
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT OUGHT TO
BE A HIGH PRIORITY FOR US TO
CONSIDER, WHETHER THERE ARE
ALTERNATIVES.
>> Brown: AND THAT GOES TO YOUR
WHOLE QUESTION OF BALANCE OF
POWER IN THE WHOLE REGION.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THIS IS ONE OF THOSE KEY STEPS
OF IT.
>> GRAEME BANNERMAN AND MARGARET
WARNER.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, THE MOUNTING
WORRIES AND PUBLIC HEALTH
CONCERNS OVER THE RISE OF DRUG-
RESISTANT BACTERIA.
THAT'S THE SUBJECT OF TONIGHT'S
EPISODE OF "FRONTLINE."
TO TELL THE STORY, THE PROGRAM
EXAMINES THREE NOTABLE CASES,
INCLUDING THAT OF ADDIE
RERECICH, AN 11-YEAR-OLD GIRL IN
TUCSON.
AFTER COMPLAINING OF A NAGGING
PAIN IN HER HIP, SHE ENDED UP
FIGHTING FOR HER LIFE IN THE
HOSPITAL IN 2011.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT, BEGINNING
WITH HER MOTHER'S RECOLLECTION.
>> I THOUGHT, WELL, YOU KNOW,
SHE'S JUST FINISHING UP SOFTBALL
SHE HAD BEEN TO THE TRACK MEET,
YOU KNOW, ALL KIND OF -- WELL,
IT COULD HAVE BEEN AN INJURY.
I GAVE HER SOME IBUPROFEN.
AS THE NIGHT WORE ON HER PAIN
GOT WORSE.
SHE DIDN'T SLEEP MUCH THAT
NIGHT.
WOKE ME UP A COUPLE TIMES ASKING
IF SHE COULD TAKE A HOT BATH OR
HAVE ANOTHER IBUPROFEN.
>> THE NEXT MORNING TONYA
RARECICH, A NURSE FOR 16 YEARS,
TOOK ADD DEE TO A LOCAL HOSPITAL
WHERE THEY SAID SHE HAD SYMPTOMS
OF A VIRUS.
BUT OVER THE NEXT TWO DAYS, THE
PAIN SPREAD AND THE FEVER GOT
WORSE.
>> I WAS AFRAID.
AT THAT POINT I REMEMBER BEING
VERY AFRAID.
AND SO I PACKED A BAG AND WENT
TO ANOTHER HOSPITAL THAT HAD
SPECIALIZED IN CHILDREN'S CARE.
I REMEMBER THINKING "SHE LOOKS
BAD.
THIS IS BAD.
SOMETHING'S REALLY, REALLY
WRONG."
THEY PUT HER ON ANTIBIOTICS, HER
BLOOD PRESSURE WAS DROPPING.
THEY WERE MAKING SPACE IN THE
I.C.U. FOR HER.
THE NEXT MORNING SHE NEEDED
OXYGEN VIA MASK.
THEY LOOKED AT PART OF HER LUNGS
AND DIAGNOSED WITH HER
PNEUMONIA.
I REMEMBER SITTING THERE
WATCHING THE SUN COME UP AND
THINKING "HOW DID SHE GET SO
SICK?
HOW DID THIS HAPPEN SO FAST?
>> I MET ADDIE IN A HOSPITAL BED
IN THE INTENSIVE CARE UNIT.
SHE WAS LYING THERE BREATHING
QUICKLY, SHE WAS SCARED.
WITH SHE HAD LITTLE INFECTED
BOILS ALL OVER HER BODY.
WHAT REALLY LOOKED MOST LIKELY
WHEN I SAW HER WAS A STAPH
BACTERIA CAUSING SEPTIC SHOCK.
AND ADDIE FIT A PATTERN THAT I
RECOGNIZED WITH COMMUNITY
ASSOCIATED M.R.S.A.
>> Woodruff: RAY SUAREZ PICKS UP
MORE OF THE STORY FROM THERE.
>> Suarez: JOURNALIST DAVID
HOFFMAN INVESTIGATED THIS FOR
"FRONTLINE."
HE JOINS ME NOW.
WE SEE YET MORE OF THIS YOUNG
GIRL'S SUFFERING.
DID ANY OF THE CONVENTIONAL
DRUGS AVAILABLE EVER ANSWERED A
DI'S INFECTIONS?
>> NO.
THIS COURAGEOUS GIRL WENT
THROUGH THAT REAL NIGHTMARISH
ODYSSEY.
AND IN THE END SHE HAD TO SUFFER
SURGERY TO RELEAVE THE INFECTION
BECAUSE THE BACTERIA WERE
RESISTANT TO ALL THE ANTIBIOTICS
WE HAVE ON THE SHELF.
>> Suarez: WHAT DOES THIS STORY
TELL US ABOUT THE RACE BETWEEN
INFECTION AND ANTIBIOTICS?
THE DRUGS WE'VE GOT AVAILABLE TO
FIGHT THEM?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT ONE THING
IT TELLS US IS THIS COULD HAPPEN
TO ANY OF US.
WE OFTEN TIMES THINK ABOUT
SOMETHING LIKE ANTIBIOTIC
RESISTANCE AS A PROBLEM THAT
OTHER PEOPLE MIGHT HAVE OR IT
COULD HAPPEN TO SOMEBODY ELSE.
BUT WE AS A SOCIETY HAVE A
LOOMING PROBLEM THAT SOME OF
THESE BACTERIA, SOME OF THE
HARMFUL ONES, ARE BECOMING
RESISTANT TO OUR LAST RESORT
VERY BEST ANTIBIOTICS.
>> Suarez: WE'RE GOING TALK MORE
ABOUT WHAT BECOMING RESISTANT
MEANS.
DO THEY EVOLVE?
DO THEY GRADUALLY DEVELOP A
TOLERANCE FOR WHAT WE'VE BEEN
HITTING THEM WITH IN HUMAN
BEING'S SYSTEMS?
>> EVOLUTION DRIVES EVERYTHING
AND IT'S RELENTLESS, CONSTANT,
AND THESE BACTERIA HAVE HAD
YEARS AND YEARS OF BEING
BOMBARDED WITH OUR ANTIBIOTICS
IN LARGE MEASURE BECAUSE WE
OVERUSED THEM.
BECAUSE WE TOOK TOO MANY OF
THEM.
BUT AS THEY EVOLVE, THEY THINK
OF DEFENSE MECHANISMS TO FIGHT
BACK AND OUR DOCUMENTARY FILM IS
PARTIALLY ABOUT A GROUP OF
BACTERIA KNOWN AS GRAM NEGATIVE
BACTERIA THAT CAN BE VERY
DANGEROUS IF YOU GET AN
INFECTION.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
BEEN DISCOVERED ABOUT SOME OF
THESE IS THAT THEY'VE DEVELOPED
KIND OF AN ARMOR, A HARD SNELL
WHICH THEY CAN DEFEND THEMSELVES
AGAINST THE ANTIBIOTICS, EVEN
THE BEST ONES.
>> Suarez: HOW ARE THE DRUG
COMPANIES WHO, AFTER ALL,
PRODUCE THE DRUGS THAT ARE
BECOMING INCREASINGLY UNABLE TO
TREAT THESE INFECTIONS,
RESPONDING TO THIS?
>>
>> WELL, THIS IS A TOUGH TIME
BECAUSE IN THE GOLDEN AGE OF
ANTIBIOTIC DRUG DEVELOPMENT
THESE COMPANIES DEVELOPED
LITERALLY DOZENS AND DOZENS OF
NEW ONES AND WHEN ONE ANTIBIOTIC
STOPPED WORKING WE ALWAYS HAD
THE PROMISE OF NEW ONES.
BUT A COUPLE THINGS HAPPENED.
FIRST OF ALL, THE SCIENCE GOT
HARDER.
AND ALSO THE ECONOMICS CHANGED.
MANY OF THESE DRUG COMPANIES
WILL HAVE TO SPEND A BILLION
DOLLARS AS AN INVESTMENT IN A
NEW DRUG AND THEY LOOK AT
PRESIDENT QUESTION OF AN
ANTIBIOTIC-- WHICH YOU TAKE
BRIEFLY, THAT'S HOW YOU'RE
SUPPOSED TO USE IT-- AND THEN
STOP TAKING AND COMPARE THE
RETURN ON INVESTMENT TO THEIR
BILLION DOLLARS WITH, SAY, A
DRUG FOR A CHRONIC DISEASE LIKE
A CHOLESTEROL DRUG, THEY'VE
CHOSEN TO INVEST IN THE CHRONIC
DISEASE.
IT'S A STRICT CHOICE ABOUT
CAPITALISM, ABOUT THE MARKET,
AND IN SOME WAYS THE MARKET
ISN'T REALLY HELPING US HERE
BECAUSE THE CHOICES THESE
COMPANIES ARE MAKING ARE TO
DEVELOP THE BIG BLOCKBUSTER
DRUGS THAT PEOPLE HAVE TO TAKE
FOR LIFE.
SO THEY'VE CUT BACK ON
ANTIBIOTIC DEVELOPMENT JUST AT A
TIME WHEN RESISTANCE SEEMS TO BE
RISING.
>> Brown: YOU MENTIONED DRUGS
THAT ARE DESIGNED TO ONLY BE
TAKEN FOR A SHORT PERIOD OF
TIME.
ISN'T PART OF THE PROBLEM THAT
TOO MANY OF US TAKE TOO MANY
ANTIBIOTICS TOO OFTEN?
>> IT'S BEEN A PROBLEM
THROUGHOUT THE 70-YEAR HISTORY
OF THE ANTIBIOTIC AGE.
ALEXANDER FLEMMING FIRST CAME UP
WITH PENICILLIN AND WARNED US IN
HIS NOBEL PRIZE SPEECH IN 1945
AGAINST OVERUSE AND TODAY WE'RE
SEEING SOME OF THE RESULTS OF
OVERUSE.
THERE WAS A STUDY OUT JUST LAST
WEEK THAT FOUND THAT LARGE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE THAT WENT TO
DOCTORS AND EMERGENCY ROOMS FOR
SORE THROATS, A WHOLE GROUP,
ABOUT 10% OF THEM HAD A
LEGITIMATE NEED FOR AN
ANTIBIOTIC AND ABOUT 50% OF THEM
ACTUALLY GOT ANTIBIOTICS.
>> Suarez: BUT DO WE -- ARE WE
READY TO TELL PEOPLE "NO, YOU
CAN'T HAVE THEM, JUST SUFFER
THROUGH THIS INFECTION UNTIL YOU
KICK IT"?
>> WELL, THERE ARE PLENTY OF
CASES-- VIRUSES AND OTHER
AILMENTS PEOPLE HAVE-- WHERE
ANTIBIOTICS WON'T DO ANY GOOD.
AND A LOT OF ESTIMATES SUBJECT
THAT AT LEAST HALF OF THE
ANTIBIOTICS THAT WE GIVE TO
HUMANS ARE WRONGLY PRESCRIBED OR
THE DOSES ARE WRONG.
SO, YEAH, WE NEED SOME BETTER
STEWARDSHIP.
WE OUGHT TO TAKE CARE OF THESE
MEDICINES RATHER THAN USE THEM
RECKLESSLY.
>> Suarez: A COUPLE PEEK YOU
SPOKE TO TALKED ABOUT A
POST-ANTIBIOTIC WORLD OF
MEDICINE.
AND GIVEN SOME OF THE HORRIFYING
INFECTIONS YOU SHOW US IN THE
COURSE OF THE PROGRAM, WHAT DOES
A POST-ANTIBIOTIC WORLD LOOK
LIKE WHERE SOME OF OUR MAJOR
WEAPONS DON'T WORK ANYMORE?
>> WELL, RAY, ALL YOU HAVE TO DO
IS LOOK AT THE AGE BEFORE
ANTIBIOTICS.
I THINK WE -- AS OUR GENERATION
HAS FORGOTTEN WHAT IT WAS LIKE
IN THE PERIOD BEFORE WORLD WAR
II WHEN A SIMPLE INFECTION COULD
OFTEN TIMES LEAD TO SOMEONE'S
DEATH AND I GUESS THE QUESTION
WE FACE IS DO WE WANT TO GO BACK
TO THAT AGE?
WE ONLY HAVE TO LOOK AT A TIME
WHEN INFECTIONS WERE DEALT WITH
AUTOMATICALLY BY SURGERY, THERE
WERE NO ANTIBIOTICS.
AND WHEN ANTIBIOTICS WERE
INVENTED AND WHEN THEY CAME
ALONG AFTER WORLD WAR II,
CONSIDER WHAT THEY DID FOR
MODERN MEDICINE.
WE HAVE SOPHISTICATED SURGERIES
TODAY LIKE TRANSPLANTS BECAUSE
OF ANTIBIOTICS.
WE HAVE CANCER TREATMENTS THAT
ARE ONLY SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OF
ANTIBIOTICS.
SO A POST-ANTIBIOTIC AGE WILL
WON'T ONLY MEAN THE DANGER OF
INFECTION BUT A LOT OF THINGS
WE'VE INNOVATED IN MEDICINE, A
LOT OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
THERAPIES WON'T BE AVAILABLE IF
WE DON'T HAVE ANTIBIOTICS.
>> Suarez: VERY QUICKLY, ARE WE
CLOSE TO THAT TERRIBLE WORLD IN.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT ANYBODY
KNOWS.
BUT THE TREND IS TURNING
NEGATIVE.
WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
IT.
>> Suarez: DAVID HOFFMAN FROM
TONIGHT'S "FRONT LINE."
THANKS A LOT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NALLFIY TONIGHT, A
PERSONAL AND POLITICAL STORY OF
THREE GENERATIONS OF AMERICAN
RADICALS.
THAT'S THE SUBJECT AUTHOR
JONATHAN LETHEM TACKLES IN HIS
NEW NOVEL, "DISSIDENT GARDENS."
LETHEM, WHOSE PREVIOUS NOVELS
INCLUDE "CHRONIC CITY" AND "THE
FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE," SAT DOWN
RECENTLY WITH JEFF.
HERE'S A PORTION OF THEIR
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: THE STORY WAS YOU
WANTED TO WRITE ABOUT YOUR OWN
GRANDMOTHER?
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY THE SOURCE
FOR THE BOOK WAS CONTEMPLATING
ALL THE KIND OF DARK AREAS IN MY
EXPERIENCE OF MY GRANDMOTHER'S
LIFE THAT I KNEW SHE'D HAD A
GIGANTIC POLITICAL EXISTENCE IN
THE '30s AND '40s AND '50s AND
YET IT WAS SEALED IN SILENCE BY
THE TIME I CAME ALONG.
>> Brown: YOU DIDN'T KNOW ANY OF
IT.
SO YOU LEARN LATER.
>> OF COURSE, I DIDN'T ACTUALLY
EVER HAVE ACCESS TO HER DOSSIER
IF SUCH A THING EXISTS.
I THINK MAYBE IT DOES.
BUT I'M A NOVELIST SO MY LICENSE
IS TO GO AND MAKE IT ALL UP.
>> Brown: OKAY, SO HOW DID IT
SGLO HOW DID IT BECOME -- AND
WHEN DID YOU KNOW IT WAS A BIG
STORY?
>> THERE ARE -- I MAY NOT HAVE
MY GRANDMOTHER'S STORY BUT THE
LIVES OF RADICALS IN THE 20th
CENTURY, IT'S A GIANT PART OF
THE AMERICAN STORY.
A VERY COMPLICATED, TURBULENT
SOMETIMES TRAGIC ONE BUT IT
INVOLVES AREAS OF -- TRIUMPH AND
ACCOMPLISHMENT AS WELL.
AND I HAD ALL SORTS OF PLACES TO
GO FOR THAT-- MEMOIRS, ACCOUNTS,
IRVING HOWE, VIVIAN GOHR NICK,
THE MEMOIRS BY RED DIAPER BABIES
>> Brown: IT'S ALMOST A KIND OF
CLOSED SOMEWHAT PARANOID GROUP
YOU'RE WRITING ABOUT.
AMERICAN COMMUNISTS AND
SYMPATHIZERS.
WE LOOK BACK AND, YOU KNOW, PART
OF IT AS I'M READING IT ALMOST
LOOKS QUAINT IN A WAY.
BUT THEN IT WAS QUITE SERIOUS.
>> IT WAS MORE THAN SERIOUS.
IT WAS AS -- YOU KNOW, STRONGLY
F
SHAPE OF PRE-WAR AMERICAN LIFE
AS ANYTHING COULD BE AND ONE OF
THE THINGS THAT I CONCLUDED--
THIS BECOME ISN'T A HIS STORE I
DON'T GOFY, IT'S ABOUT THE
CHARACTERS-- BUT I REALIZED
THESE WERE VERY AMERICAN CHOICES
TO MAKE.
VERY TYPICAL IN THEIR WAY THAT
WE, OUR COUNTRY, MADE UP OF
WAVES OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF
UTOPIAN AMBITION AND ASPIRATION
AND THIS WAS ONE OF THOSE.
>> Brown: SO YOUR JOB AS A NOVEL
CYST TO PUT FLESH ON THE
PERSONAL SIZE OF THAT.
>> THAT TO SHE ALWAYS WHAT THE
JOB IS REALLY CENTERED IS WHAT
WAS IT LIKE TO LIVE THESE LIVES?
TO FEEL MY WAY IN?
OTHER PEOPLE CAN DO HISTORY.
I'M NOT QUALIFIED AND I'M NOT
REALLY, IN A WAY, INCLINED THAT
WAY.
I WANTED TO MAKE YOU FEEL THAT
THESE LIVES EXISTED AND HA THEY
CONSISTED OF.
I THINK THAT IT'S A JOB THAT I
VENTS ITSELF OVER AND OVER
AGAIN.
MY JOB A WAY IS TO ABIDE WITH MY
OWN CURIOSITY, MY OWN IGNORANCE
AND REACH OUT INTO THAT SPACE AS
I DID WITH MY GRANDMOTHER'S LIFE
AND AS I DID HERE WITH THE 1930s
AND '40s, PLACES I HAVEN'T BEEN,
CAN'T GO BACK AND VISIT AND JUST
DREAM MY WAY INTO OTHER LIVES AS
WELL AS I CAN.
>> Brown: DREAM YOUR WAY INTO
OTHER LIVES.
THAT'S IT?
>> THAT'S IT.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN WATCH JEFF'S
FULL CONVERSATION ON THE ART
BEAT PAGE ON OUR WEB SITE.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL AND HUMAN
RIGHTS WATCH REPORTED U.S. DRONE
STRIKES IN PAKISTAN AND YEMEN
OFTEN KILL CIVILIANS, AND MAY
AMOUNT TO WAR CRIMES.
THE WHITE HOUSE REJECTED THE
FINDINGS.
AND THE LABOR DEPARTMENT
REPORTED U.S. EMPLOYERS CREATED
148,000 JOBS LAST MONTH, WELL
BELOW EXPECTATIONS.
BUT THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE FELL
SLIGHTLY AS MORE PEOPLE STOPPED
LOOKING FOR WORK.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, WHEN
"DEMONSTRATING YOUR SKILLS"
TURNS INTO "DOING WORK FOR FREE"
DURING THE JOB INTERVIEW
PROCESS.
OUR RESIDENT EXPERT HAS ADVICE
ON HOW TO APPROPRIATELY DEAL
WITH EMPLOYERS LOOKING TO GET
SOMETHING FOR NOTHING.
THAT'S ON MAKING SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND AGAIN, TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE EIGHT
MORE.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA
MEETS WITH PAKISTAN'S PRIME
MINISTER AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.